.TH SE_CDB 8 "June 2005" "Sedna" "Sedna Native XML DBMS"

.SH NAME
se_cdb \- Sedna database creation utility

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B se_cdb
[options] dbname

.SH DESCRIPTION

To create a database, use the \fBse_cdb\fR command. 

Each database consists of the following files:
.IP "\fB<db_name>.data\fR file"
used for storing persistent XML data, which
are loaded to the database by user using LOAD/UPDATE expressions. 
.IP "\fB<db_name>.tmp\fR file"
used for storing temporary XML data. It
appears in the database during query execution and contains intermediate
results.
.IP "\fB<db_name>.ph\fR and \fB<db_name>.ph.bu\fR files"
used for storing
XML metadata (for example, the descriptive scheme of XML documents).
.IP "\fBbuf\fR directory"
contains some intermidiate data. It is created when
the database is run and removed when the database is stopped.

.P
Besides, for each database there are run-time configuration parameters, which
are stored in the database configuration file.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB--help\fR, \fB-help\fR
display help and exit
.TP
\fB-version\fR
display product version and exit
.TP
\fB-data-file-max-size\fR Mbs
allows Administrator to set up the maximum size (in Mb) of the file where the
persistent data are stored. The default value for this option is infinite.
.TP								
\fB-tmp-file-max-size\fR Mbs
allows Administrator to set up the maximum size (in Mb) of the file where the
temporary data are stored. The default value for this option is infinite.
.TP
\fB-data-file-ext-portion\fR Mbs
allows Administrator to set up the size (in Mb) of the portion to which the
persistent data file will be extended as result of executing resize operation.
Resize operation is applied to the persistent data file if its size is less
than needed for storing XML documents. The default value is 100 Mb.
.TP								
\fB-tmp-file-ext-portion\fR Mbs
allows Administrator to set up the size (in Mb) of the portion to which the
temporary data file will be extended as result of executing resize operation.
The resize operation is applied to the temporary data file if its size is less
than needed for storing temporary data (intermediate results of the query, for
example). The default value is 100 Mb.
.TP
\fB-data-file-init-size\fR Mbs
allows Administrator to set up the initial size (in Mb) of the persistent data
file. It is obvious that the initial size can't be greater than the maximum
size of the persistent data file. The default value is 100 Mb.
.TP
\fB-tmp-file-init-size\fR Mbs
the tmp file initial size (in Mb), default 100Mb
allows Administrator to set up the initial size (in Mb) of the temporary data file. It is obvious that the initial size can't be greater than the maximum size of the temporary data file. The default value is 100 Mb.
.TP
\fB-persistent-heap-size\fR Mbs
allows Administrator to set up the size (in Mb) of the metadata file (for
example the descriptive schema stores in this file) This file cannot be
resized. The default value is 10 Mb.
.TP
\fB-bufs-num\fR N
allows Administrator to set up the number of buffers in main memory. This
number is connected with the size of the main memory, but the performance
of the database depends of this number very much. The default value is 1600
buffers, which is equal to 100Mb and we do not recommend to use less number of
buffers. The size of one buffer is 64Kb and can't be customized by
Administrator.
.TP
\fB-max-trs-num\fR N
the number of concurrent micro ransactions over database, default 10.
We recommend to use default value.
.TP 
db_name
the name of the database to be created. Administrator can use the arbitrary
sequence of latin characters and digits for database name. There cannot be two
databases with the same name.



.SH FILES
.I /etc/sednaconf.xml
.RS
Sedna configuration file (optional)
.RE
.I /var/lib/sedna/
.RS
Default location of database files
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR se_gov (8),
.BR se_sm (8),
.BR se_trn (8)

