.TH SE_GOV 8 "June 2005" "Sedna" "Sedna Native XML DBMS"

.SH NAME
se_gov \- Sedna governor daemon

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B se_gov
[options]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Governor
serves as  "control center" of the system. All other components register at
the Governor. The Governor knows which other components (e.g. databases and
sessions) are running in the system and controls them. Other components cannot
function properly if the Governor is not running so you must start it to use
Sedna. Besides, Governor is responsible for handling remote client's requests.
For each request it creates a session which keeps the direct connection with
client. Then the client interacts with the system via session. You may run
only one instance of the Governor.

.I Session
keeps the client's settings and allows client to run a sequence of
transactions. The transactions within a session are strictly serial, that is
one transaction ends before next one starts, there is only one active
transaction per session. Transaction provides functionality required for
execution of the client's queries. The query execution consists of several
steps: (1) parsing of the query and translation of the query into its logical
representation, (2) processing of the logical representation by optimizer that
produces the optimal query execution plan, (3) execution of the optimal query
plan and passing results to the client.


To start the Sedna server one should start
.I Governor
by executing the
.B se_gov
command. This starts the main server component. After it
Administrator can run databases. See
.BR se_cdb (8)
and
.BR se_sm (8)
for further deails.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB--help\fR, \fB-help\fR
display help and exit
.TP
\fB-version\fR
display product version and exit
.TP
\fB-background-mode\fR on|off
start the server in the background mode (default on)
.TP
\fB-listen-address\fR <address>
local address the server listens for client connections (default "localhost")
.TP
\fB-port-number\fR <int>
socket listening port (default 5050)
\fB-ping-port-number\fR <int>
ping listening port (default 5151)
.TP
\fB-el-level\fR <int>
event logging level (default 3): 0 - event logging is off, 1 - log only fatal errors, 2 - log all errors/warnings, 3 - system operational messages, 4 - log everything (+debug messages)
.TP
\fB-alive-timeout\fR <int>
session keep alive timeout (default 0 - infinite timeout)
.TP
\fB-stack-depth\fR <int>
maximum executor stack depth (default 4000)
.TP

.SH FILES
.I /etc/sednaconf.xml
.RS
Sedna configuration file (optional)
.RE
.I /var/lib/sedna/
.RS
Default location of database files
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR se_cdb (8),
.BR se_sm (8),
.BR se_trn (8)

