.TH SE_TRN 8 "June 2005" "Sedna" "Sedna Native XML DBMS"

.SH NAME
se_trn \- execute Sedna transactions

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B se_trn
[options] dbname filename

.SH DESCRIPTION
There are several ways to execute query over Sedna. The simplest way to do it
is using the \fBse_trn\fR command. This command requries two input parameters.
The first one is the name of the database, to which the query is addressed and
the second one is the file with .xquery extension, which contains the user
query. Besides, there are several options, which semantics will be explained
below. About supported QUERY/UPDATE language see in the Sedna Programmer's
Guide. The result of the query is directed to standard output stream (stdout).
Note that if you have Sedna compiled in release version you can not start trn
process manually; it's only supported if Sedna is compiled in debug version.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB--help\fR, \fB-help\fR
display help and exit
.TP
\fB-version\fR
display product version and exit
.TP
\fB-show-time\fR on/off
show time of query execution (default off)
.TP
\fB-print-intermed\fR on/off
print intermediate results for debug purposes (default off)
.TP
\fB-query-type\fR type
type of the query to execute (XQuery, POR), default is XQuery
.TP
\fB-name\fR name
user name (default SYSTEM)
\fB-pswd\fR password
user password (default MANAGER)
.TP
\fBdb-name\fR is database name
.TP
\fBfilename\fR is the file with an XQuery query

.SH NOTES
Before running any transactions be sure that Sedna storage manager is started
for the corresponding database (see \fBse_gov\fR (8) for further details)

.SH FILES
.I /etc/sednaconf.xml
.RS
Sedna configuration file (optional)
.RE
.I /var/lib/sedna/
.RS
Default location of database files
.RE
.I /usr/share/doc/sedna/ProgGuide.pdf.gz
.RS
Sedna Programmer's Guide
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR se_cdb (8),
.BR se_gov (8),
.BR se_sm (8),
.BR se_term (1)

