.TH SE_TERM 1 "June 2005" "Sedna" "Sedna Native XML DBMS"

.SH NAME
se_term \- Sedna terminal

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B se_term
[options] dbname

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBse_term\fR is an interactive terminal to Sedna DBMS. It is a C application
that uses Sedna C API (see "Sedna Programmer's Guide") to work with Sedna
DBMS. It enables you to open a session to one of the Sedna database, type in
queries interactively, issue them to the database and see the query results.
Alternatively, input can be from a file, or a single query can be passed for
execution as a command line parameter. In addition, it provides a number of
meta-commands.

\fBse_term\fR returns 0 to the shell if it finished normally, 1 if there
were errors.


When \fBse_term\fR is used in the interactive mode it takes in query/update
statements and meta-commands. To execute a query/update statement type in a
statement and use semicolon and line feed to terminate it (\fI;'\\n'\fR
terminates the query). An end of line does not terminate the query, thus
queries can be spread over several lines for clarity. The first query/update
statement automatically begins transaction. If the statement executed
successfully, the results are displayed on the screen.

Meta-commands are commands for \fBse_term\fR that proccessed by the
\fBse_term\fR itself. A meta-command begins with a backslash and that differs
it from the query/update statements. Thus, the format of \fBse_term\fR
meta-command is the backslash, followed immediately by a command, with no
semicolon at the end. \fBse_term\fR takes in the following meta-commands:

.TP
\\?
for help on internal slash commands
.TP
\\commit
to commit transaction
.TP
\\rollback
to rollback transaction
.TP
\\showtime
to show the time of the latest query execution
.TP
\\quit
to close session and quit the Sedna Terminal

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB--help\fR, \fB-help\fR
display help and exit
.TP
\fB-version\fR
display product version and exit
.TP
\fB-file\fR filename
specifies the name of the file that contains any number of queries and
meta-commands. \fBse_term\fR uses this file as the source of queries and
meta-commands instead of reading them interactively. \fBse_term\fR executes
the queries and meta-commands from file consequently and exit.
.TP
\fB-query\fR query
specifies the XQuery query to execute.
.TP
\fB-show-time\fR on/off
show time of query execution (default off). Allows to get the time of the
latest query execution. If used with the \fB-query\fR option provides the
time of the specified query execution; if used with the \fB-file\fR option
provides the time of the execution of the last query in file.
.TP
\fB-host\fR host
specifies the name of the machine with Sedna DBMS running. If not used,
default value \fIlocalhost\fR is used.
.TP
\fB-port-number\fR port
specifies the TCP port on which Sedna server is listening to client
applications. If omitted, port number 5050 is used by default.
.TP
\fB-name\fR name
user name (default SYSTEM)
.TP
\fB-pswd\fR password
user password (default MANAGER)
.TP
db-name
specifies the name of the database to connect to.

.SH NOTES
Before running any transactions be sure that Sedna storage manager is strarted
for the corresponding database (see \fBse_gov\fR (8) for further details)

.SH FILES
.I /etc/sednaconf.xml
.RS
Sedna configuration file (optional)
.RE
.I /var/lib/sedna/
.RS
Default location of database files
.RE
.I /usr/share/doc/sedna/ProgGuide.pdf.gz
.RS
Sedna Programmer's Guide
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR se_cdb (8),
.BR se_gov (8),
.BR se_sm (8),
.BR se_trn (8)

